### *About Me* 👋
Hi, I’m Noe Navarro (@Nnavarr)! I'm a Phoneix based Financial & Data Analyst with 5+ years of experience. I graduated from ASU with a BS in Finance '14. Afterwards I worked at a mortgage lender before landing a position at U-Haul as a Financial Analyst. While there, I picked up a passion for all things code/programming. So much so, I abaondoned my pursuit of the CFA charter and have devoted all my self improvement time to becoming a software developer. 
At the start of 2021, I transitioned to a much smaller agriculture company here in the valley. My title was updated to reflect my data analysis skillset; Python, R, SQL, and Power BI.


### *Interests* 👀 
I'm interested in:
- Programming / Development
- Finance
- Analytics
- PC Gaming (the forever hobby)

Lastly, my main interest is the endless pursuit of mastering my craft. I thouroughly enjoy working in Python and creating tools/processes that help myself and team provide the best value and hopefully help us stress less as well. After becoming proficient with Pandas and higher level libraries, I began learning core CS concepts and continue learning to this day.

### *Goals* :soccer:
As of 6/2021, in order to take my development skills to the next level, I've started learning more traditional Web development technologies (JavaScript, HTML, CSS). The primary goal is to expand my value add when creating custom tools.

While I enjoy being an analyst, the power of creation is one I've found myself addicted to; the design, buildout, and implementation of a tool/process is something I look forward to.
I'm in pursuit of becoming a fully fledged software developer (ultimately full stack), and I'm thouroughly enjoying the learning and process :smile: :closed_book:

### *Previous Work* :robot:

Some of my best projects include the following: 

#### 1. Report Automation (Quarterly Acquisitions) :bar_chart:
- During my time at U-Haul, I spent a great deal of time implementing scalable solutions to recurring reports and analyses. One report that stands out was the Quarterly Acquisitions report. For this process, I created an income statement aggregation based on our chart of accounts and tracked newly acquired properties grouped by quarter buckets. This report and dashboard was compiled on a quarterly basis and played a major role in preparing our CFO for quarterly investor calls.

  The report went through a few iterations and improvements. In the end, I was able to deliver a robust report which consisted of: 
  - Excel Spreadsheet Summary
  - Power BI Dashboard  
  
  The aggregation itself was mostly done via Python and SQL
  
  ##### Repository Link
    https://github.com/Nnavarr/Post-Acquisition-Analysis


#### 2. Market Dashboard (Weekly) :chart_with_upwards_trend:
 - The market dashboard was an R flexdashboard that compiled various market rates including US Treasuries, Corporate Bonds, Fed Fund Rates, and general U.S. Equity Indicies. This was sent out every Monday and relied on a couple data sources: 
  - Excel Doc from Treasury Department (Python ETL)
  - Google Finance (using R)

    ##### Repository Link
      https://github.com/Nnavarr/Market-Dashboard

#### 3. Forecasting App (R - Shiny) :crystal_ball:
  - One of my all time favorite projects was an Ordinary Least Squares (OLS) regression web app I developed for the Reail Sales team at U-Haul. Here, the ask was to provide a forecast for a single inventory part in order to match supply with future demand. As it turned out, there were hundreds of parts to forecast. Instead of using the same Excel appraoch, a more efficient application would be one which was scalable. R's shiny framework provided just that; a web app that could take an uploaded CSV file (to avoid storing data on public networks), provide a forecast with backtest, and a csv download of said forecasts.
    This truly helped the retail sales team as I was often thanked and even received a few more analyses from their department afterwards. This was my favorite project not only for the cool tool I built, but for the impact it made on the retail sales team; it helped empower their decision making.
    Admittedly, this was was built before I had an in-depth understanding of programming. The code itself 100% needs a refactor (It can be painful looking back at old projects), but the functionality is there. Lastly, a more general version was created outside of the repo to remove the "Inventory" tags. Essentially, any set of Monthly data will work.
    
    This is also hosted on Shiny's free web host: 
        https://www.shinyapps.io/admin/#/application/2044456
      
    ##### Repository Link
      https://github.com/Nnavarr/Inventory-Forecast

#### 4. Flash Report Automation (XL Wings & Selenium) :e-mail:
  - This project involved a weekly report that required a few steps in aggregation. It relied on autogenerated CSV files along with an Excel Template to generate a weekly report. This was sent to various higher level managers/executives and the need to automate (using Python) became clear as it would take 30+ minutes to compile everytime. 
  - Because there was a portion that required data from a webpage, I used Selenium to create a bot that would 1) Log into the site and 2) JavaScript injection to update HTML strucutre in order to print to PDF more pleasantly. 
  - Additionally, the generated PDF files and CSV files were sent via emails that were autogenerated using python's win32com module and Microsoft Outlook.

    This project got me excited for building bots using Selenium and I've since created a few for webscraping as well. 
  - Another Selenium process I built was aimed at helping a friend acquire a Graphics Card during these times of shortage. It's a rough life for a PC gamer, with graphics cards out of stock and raffle systems in place for purchase. I built a bot to listen to Gamestop's site and send an alert when an element updated (the card was in stock). 
    From there, the process would send a text message to my friend, letting him know to buy

    ##### Repository Links
      https://github.com/Nnavarr/flash_report
      https://github.com/Nnavarr/AvailabilityBot

#### 5. Finance Department Central Reporting Module (Python) :books:
  - This is a project I was excited to implement. Essentially, our department was responsible for various reporting needs. In order to maintain with the demand for analyses and reporting, any/all reports that were deemed scriptable were compiled into a single directory with a Python module format. Each reporting frequency became it's own subfolder and this helped to: 
    1. Organize our department's documentation/processes
    2. Formalize a structure for existing and new reports
    3. Created a central location for all relevant files which led to department efficiencies
    
    Unfortunately, due to the sensitive nature of these files, I cannot have them publicly available. However, I'd be happy to share on a more closed forum. The processes do not contain company sensitive information, but I'd rather not show an entire departments code repository.


### Contact Me :email:
If you'd like to reach out, please feel free to send a ping or email at noe.navarro1019@gmail.com. I'm always looking to collaborate on cool projects and open to provide advice for newer developers who may also be following the self-taught route :smiley:

Happy coding! :tada:
<!---
Nnavarr/Nnavarr is a ✨ special ✨ repository because its `README.md` (this file) appears on your GitHub profile.
You can click the Preview link to take a look at your changes.
--->
